Currently in our application,
we have users Joe and Dave and a service account portfolio service.
The portfolio service should be the only client with
access to the pricing service.
So let's create a new scope called pricing and only allow access to
the pricing service to clients with that scope.
In our Keycloak admin console under Client Scopes, select Create.
Fill the form in.
This will be for a non- human resource owner, so we don't need consent.
Save.
One more scope for administration.
Call it portfolio-service-admin.
Now to add the pricing scope to the token created
by the portfolio service client, navigate to the client,
select scopes.
You can either add it as default,
meaning it will always be added to the token for this client without them
having to request it during the authorization or optional,
meaning the client will have to specify that they want
this scope in the authorization request.
Let's put it in as optional.
Let's do the same for the portfolio service admin scope,
but added to the crypto- portfolio client.
Hence,
only users who authenticate via the MVC application will be
allowed to access the admin features.
If they log in via the React client,
they won't have the appropriate scope even if the
resource owner has the admin role.
Next, let's create an admin role for the Crypto Portfolio clients.
On the client page, Roles, Add Role.
Name it portfolio-admin.
Now to include the roles in the access token, we can create a mapper.
Create new, token claim name to roles.
This would be the key of the new attribute.
The value will be a collection of roles.
Now that the roles and scopes are configured,
let's create an admin user, Victoria.
Let's fill in the form and the credentials,
give her a password, and assign her the portfolio-admin role.
Okay, all set. Next, let's use these roles and scopes in our application.